# Tenant

## Motivation

Add CRD to Tenant to decouple Thanos resources from object storage. It also decouples the cluster from Thanos Receive Hard Tenant, and provides space for automatic scaling of Thanos resources

## Goals

* Allow configuration of the Service/Storage field of Tenant
* Autoscale Ingester/Ruler based on the number of Tenants
* Decouples kubesphere cluster from Thanos Receive Hard Tenant
* View the tenant's Thanos resources by using the Status field

## Proposal

### Tenant CRD

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.whizard.io/v1alpha1
kind: Tenant
metadata:
  name: test
  labels:
    monitoring.whizard.io/service: kubesphere-monitoring-system.central
spec:
  tenant: test
  storage:
    namespace: kubesphere-monitoring-system
    name: default
status:
  thanos:
    thanosReceiveIngestor:
      name: central-default-auto-0
      namespace: kubesphere-monitoring-system
    thanosRuler:
      name: test
      namespace: kubesphere-monitoring-system
```

### Tenant Service

The tenant's Service is allowed to be configured in the `tenant.metadata.labels[monitoring.whizard.io/service]` field. If it is empty, the tenant is not associated with any Thanos resources.


### Tenant Storage

The tenant's Storage can be configured in the `tenant.spec.storage` field. If it is empty, the tenant searches for the `service.spec.storage` field associated with Service. If both fields are empty, the tenant uses local Storage.

### Create or delete tenant CR according to the lifecycle of KubeSphere cluster

cluster controller watch KubeSphere cluster CRD generate tenant CR.

The 'kubeSphereAdapterService' parameter can be modified from the command line or configuration file to specify the default service to generate Tenant CR.

